Windows VMs (#280)
openshift/openshift-origin-design: web-console/knikubevirt/windows-vms/windows-vms.md

When a Windows VM is chosen, the disk interface will not be able to be Virtio-scsi because the VM will not have the drivers for it, so we need to advise the user to install the drivers after the VM has been created and then switch the interface from SATA to Virtio-scsi (to do this switch they will need to power off and restart the VM).
The drivers needed for Virtio-scsi are available via the Windows Guest Agent which is available by default.

The user will be notified about the drivers in the Add NIC modal
![user is notified about the drivers](img/Networking1.png)

As well as in the Add disk modal

![user is notified about the drivers](img/Storage1.png)

3. In the list view the user sees that the VM is running but there is a warning icon indicating something is wrong. Clicking it will show a popover.
![warning icon allowing user to know that something is going on with this VM](img/Notification1.png)

4. In the status popover they are provided with an explanation they should now switch the interface to Virtio-scsi for better performance and an action link “Switch interface”. 
They will also be notified that the VM must be restarted for the driver update to take effect.

> ![Popover with explanation](img/NotificationPopover.png)

Reviewer: Hello! This is a small thing, but the text on the modal should align with the close "X" as seen here. There should be a margin of padding on the right hand side: https://www.patternfly.org/v4/documentation/react/components/modal/

Author: Thanks @https://github.com/rachael-phillips, I just fixed that.

The drivers needed for Virtio-scsi are available via the Windows Guest Agent which is available by default.

The user will be notified about the drivers in the Add NIC modal
![user is notified about the drivers](img/Networking1.png)

As well as in the Add disk modal

![user is notified about the drivers](img/Storage1.png)

3. In the list view the user sees that the VM is running but there is a warning icon indicating something is wrong. Clicking it will show a popover.
![warning icon allowing user to know that something is going on with this VM](img/Notification1.png)

4. In the status popover they are provided with an explanation they should now switch the interface to Virtio-scsi for better performance and an action link “Switch interface”. 
They will also be notified that the VM must be restarted for the driver update to take effect.

![Popover with explanation](img/NotificationPopover.png)

If they choose to switch Interfaces they will be asked when they choose to schedule it

![user can schedule to switch interface](img/SwitchInterface.png)

> This is another option that allows the user to change the interface without scheduling a specific time, so just a dropdown with the current interface selected by default (the other option in the drop down would be Virtio-scsi interface) and then the user can either Save or Cancel the change

Reviewer 2: Would we want to show this text as "Current interface" or "Sata (currently selected)" to be more informative?

Author: yes, switched from "current" to "Sata". Thanks.

![user can switch interface](img/SwitchInterfaceOp2.png)

> The users would need to be aware that switching the interface for the disk is useful (but not required). It’s important to note that it’s not required because they will not get an error stating there is an issue.

Reviewer 2: Should we be more clear about this? We hint at it in the initial popover but don't state it explicitly anywhere in these modals, WDYT?

Author: Do you think we should declare in the modals as well that switching the interface is useful but not mandatory?

Reviewer 2: +1 I think it's worth exploring to make it clear

# Windows VMs

> The purpose of this PR is to research the details of a Windows VM vs any other option currently available via CNV. It will also try to cover how a Windows VM impacts each step of creating a VM flow, as well as after the VM has been created and also actions that  a user can take to improve the operability of the Windows VM.

Reviewer 2: I think we could remove this paragraph entirely. It could be added to the description of the PR but really a title of End to end flow of creating a windows VM should cover this.

There are 3 main use cases for creating a windows VM:

> - A developer who develops software on windows and needs good connection of the VM to other parts of OpenShift (e.g. he can have his DB in a pod for example) and quick/responsive RDP connection.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- A developer who develops software on Windows and needs good connection to the VM to other parts of OpenShift (e.g. he can have his database in a pod for example) and quick/responsive RDP connection.
```

- End user that works with a software that is installed on a VM (and not on a personal laptop, f.e. due to different time zones.

- Server virtualization - Administrator that installs a server + Windows applications and manages them. This user is interested in the flexibility to configure the VM so it will fit his needs and performs as it should.

## Create VM flow  

> 1. When the user chooses windows OS from the Operating system drop down menu, they are notified that the Windows guest tools will be mounted which will then show in the Advanced step > virtual hardware (maybe we should label this as a CD-ROM?)

Reviewer 2: @jelkosz what do you think of labelling the guest tools as a CD-ROM in the advanced step? Right now we just have it dropped in there but I envision other virtual hardware existing so we could distinguish things by titles.

![user chooses windows OS from the Operating system drop down menu](img/General1.png)

![user is notified that Windows guest tools will be mounted](img/General2advanced.png)

2. Storage and Networking steps

The main issue here is the drivers for the interface: The user needs Sata interface to set the VM but once they install the drivers they can switch to the Virtio-scsi interface.

> So at first, since the interface would be prepopulated with IDE, the user will see the Sata interface (because that is the one needed to install Windows).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
So at first, since the interface would be pre-populated with SATA, the user will see the SATA interface (because that is the one needed to install Windows).
```

> When a Windows VM is chosen, the disk interface will not be able to be Virtio-scsi because the VM will not have the drivers for it, so we need to advise the user to install the drivers after the VM has been created and then switch the interface from IDE to Virtio-scsi (to do this switch they will need to power off the VM).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
When a Windows VM is chosen, the disk interface will not be able to be Virtio-scsi because the VM will not have the drivers for it, so we need to advise the user to install the drivers after the VM has been created and then switch the interface from SATA to Virtio-scsi (to do this switch they will need to power off and restart the VM).
```

> The drivers needed for Virtio-scsi are available via the Windows Guest Agent which is available by default.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The drivers needed for Virtio-scsi are available via the Windows Guest Tools which is available by default.
```

### Networking step

> ![user is notified about the drivers](img/Networking1.png)

Reviewer 2: +1 to @lizsurette comment about Sata vs SATA for the dropdown text here.

### Storage step

![user is notified about the drivers](img/Storage1.png)

> 3. The user starts up the VM, then goes into Windows and installs the drivers.

Reviewer 3: I'm not sure I follow the numbering here...are you looking to call out each change the user sees with a windows VM vs. another type of OS still?

Reviewer 2: ya I think these are an artifact of the initial discovery doc and can be removed.

Author: Exactly :)

4. In the list view the user sees that the VM is running but that they should now switch the interface to Virtio-scsi for better performance.

5. In the status popover they are provided with a “Switch interface” action. They will also be notified that the VM must be restarted for the driver update to take effect.

## Post creation steps

The users would need to be aware that switching the interface for the disk is useful (but not required). It’s important to note that it’s not required because they will not get an error stating there is an issue.

It seems reasonable to have a notification in the Storage step that advises them to make the update and then in the VM list to show that same notification under the status column.

> ![user is notified that something is going on with this VM](img/Notification1.png)

Reviewer 2: nitpic: there is a second action button here :)

By click a popover will show and provide an explanation

![Popover with explanation](img/NotificationPopover.png)

If they choose to switch Interfaces they will be asked when they choose to schedule it

> ![user can schedule to switch interface](img/SwitchInterface.png)

Reviewer 3: I haven't seen this use of the toast notification before. Is this something that PatternFly is okay with? It's an interesting idea, but I do wonder if we should just use a modal.

Reviewer 2: ya I think in a modal is the right approach. I'm not sure we need a warning here either. The modal can explain the options. 
Nitpic: That "Switch interface" shouldn't be an external link if it's just opening a modal so we can remove the arrow icon.

Author: Thanks @lizsurette, this dropdown even simplifies things a bit more, so I just added it as another option.

Reviewer 3: @yfrimanm - I like the simplicity! We can see if it's even possible from @jelkosz though :)

Reviewer 2: Another comment on these options: Should we change "No thanks" to something more informative like "Keep the SATA interface"

### CD-ROMs

> The user will see these guest tools in the VM details, under the overview tab in the ‘CD-ROM(s)’ section, and have the indication that Windows Drivers are installed.

Reviewer 2: I don't believe this would actually indicate the drivers are installed just that the guest tools are avialable via a CD-ROM in windows. I wonder if we should indicate at the VM Details level that the drivers have been installed and the CD can be ejected. @jelkosz can we detect this?
